<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Thinking Outside the Page</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Thinking Outside the Page</h1><div>This section is written particularly for those who have learned and worked with print-oriented tools like Microsoft Word for some time. When moving to BrightWriter or some other editor focused on digital presentation, there is a common tendency to wonder how to set margins, why you can't pick an exact point size for a font, etc. I'd like to take a moment to explain how digital presentation differs from print.</div><div><br /></div><div>Let us think a bit about margins and font size. In a program like Microsoft Word, these are expressed in <b>absolute units</b>. This is because Microsoft Word assumes you're creating that document in order to print it out on a piece of paper. While there are some differences in paper sizes, they tend to differ by a matter of a couple inches in terms of height or width. However, this assumption breaks completely when creating content to be viewed on digital devices. </div><div><br /></div><div>For example, let us consider an iPhone and a 30 inch monitor. An iPhone has a screen width of slightly less than 2.31 inches, and a height of around 4 inches. Now, imagine you set your page margins to 0.5 inches in Microsoft Word. The margins now take up half of the iPhone's screen width! On a 30 inch monitor, however, the margins take up 1/60 of the monitor's space. Similar issues arise with font size, line spacing, etc. Microsoft Word and similar tools do some guesswork to try and determine how to translate the margins you set into values appropriate for various devices, but making guesses is prone to error and so invariably the content has display issues on various digital devices.</div><div><br /></div><div>This is why when we design for digital presentation, we tend to deal with <b>relative units</b>. Instead of saying "make this text 24 pixels instead of 16 pixels", when designing for digital presentation, we might specify instead "make this text larger than the default text size" (e.g. set the size to '5' instead of '3'). This way, the <b>device itself</b> can determine the absolute text size, line height and margins in which to display your content. With software like iBooks, each user can even set the default font size, brightness, etc. </div><div><br /></div><div>Giving up control over how the content is viewed is a bit uncomfortable for those used to setting specific margins, line spacing and font sizes, but becoming comfortable with this is essential to creating quality digital content.</div>
</body>
</html>