<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Upgrading From 2.x</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Upgrading From 2.x</h1><div>If you've been working with previous versions of BrightWriter, you will find that <b>version 3.0 is a major change from previous versions.</b> These changes were necessary to keep BrightWriter relevant as a tool for building modern learning modules and e-books that work with the commonly available software out there today.</div><div><br /></div><div>To get the most out of BrightWriter 3.0, you should consider changing the way you work with the program. For example, typically in the past, one would create content in a separate HTML editor and then import those contents into BrightWriter. While this is still possible, you will get better results by using the built-in HTML editing functionality, and if you do decide to import, it is highly recommended you run the HTML Clean Up tool available from Format -&gt; Clean Up HTML option in the menu bar.</div><div><br /></div><div>Also, another significant change to be aware of is that the project file automatically saves itself whenever you make a change. You no longer need to save projects. However, you <b>do</b> need to save changes to pages as you edit them. So the Save functionality still exists, but it applies to pages now, not the project itself.</div><div><br /></div><div>Lastly, a couple features from previous versions have been removed, some temporarily and some permanently. The main feature that has been removed permanently is the functionality for setting themes. Very few users created their own themes, and these themes would not work well with the new editing mode, nor would it be properly supported when the EClass was exported as a learning module</div><div>or e-book. Therefore the decision was made to discontinue this feature, as it was felt that the ability to support Learning Management Systems (LMS) and e-book readers was a core functionality for the program. Also, search functionality in exported EClasses has been removed as well. It required a lot of setup on the server side, which was sometimes highly technical and problematic. If you export as a learning module or e-book, chances are the device used to read the EClass has built-in search functionality, so the search functionality has more been replaced by better solutions than removed.</div><div><br /></div><div>The main features that have been temporarily removed are the functions for embedding videos and creating tests. These are both related to issues with exporting to various places. Once the technical issues with this have been resolved, these capabilities will be added back into the program. We appreciate your patience with this.</div><div><br /></div><div>Overall, the changes in BrightWriter resolve a lot of long-standing issues with the program, such as the problematic hotword support (where sometimes it would not properly detect and link hotwords) and issues supporting non-English EClasses often caused by HTML programs which would not do things such as identify the language the HTML page was written in. All pages you create now conform strictly to the XHTML 1.1 standard, which should reduce problems with viewing among browsers and allow for even more interesting additions in the future.</div><div><br /></div><div>Thank you for your support for the program, and hopefully this will help you to create even better EClasses! </div><div> </div>
</body>
</html>