<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Video Production &amp; Conversion</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Video Production &amp; Conversion</h1><div>Video production and conversion is a very detailed topic, one which could have a book devoted to it. This section will attempt to cover the basics needed to get started.</div><div><br /></div><div>For video production, what is needed is a video camera with a computer interface, such as a USB cable, and software to edit the videos once they've been put on the computer. Mac computers come with iMovie, which can do most common editing tasks, and Windows comes with Windows Movie Maker. There are also numerous commercial programs for editing video that you can choose from. Please see the software documentation for your video editing software to learn more about how to use the various features available for editing your video.</div><div><br /></div><div>Once you have created your video, you need to convert it to the MP4 format to embed in your EClass, and possibly also the OGG video format as well, if you're using the HTML5 approach. Some of the above-mentioned programs directly export to MP4, and for cases where such export is not available, you can use a tool such as the free <a href="http://www.mirovideoconverter.com/" target="_blank">Miro Video Converter</a> to convert your video into the appropriate format.</div><div><br /></div><div>One important aspect to consider when creating video is that videos take up a lot of disk space, and this can impact your ability to distribute your EClass to users. It is not difficult for videos to take minutes, or hours, for users to download, and so including a lot of videos can make it harder for users to download your EClass. An alternative is to use an approach called "streaming", which is where you host the video on a special server that is set up to send pieces of the video so that the video can be played even before the learner has downloaded the entire video. Uploading your video to YouTube, for example, is one way of streaming it, but YouTube restricts videos to a length of 15 minutes or less. If you wish to show videos longer than that, however, it would require you to obtain a server with a lot of space and the proper server software installed. If you do not have the technical expertise to set up such a server, nor the resources to rent space on a server that is set up for this, then it is recommended you keep the video you record to small clips. Note that if you use YouTube or any other streaming service, the video will not play unless the learner's reading device is connected to the Internet, and if it is a mobile phone, you should warn them about the potential download charges for data usage if they're using their cell service provider's data capabilities.  </div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div>
</body>
</html>