<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Creating and Exporting Presentations</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Creating and Exporting Presentations</h1><div>This section will provide an overview of the various methods for creating and exporting a presentation for embedding in your EClass.</div><div><br /></div><div>First, there are a couple different types of presentations. There is the type created using <a href="http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/powerpoint/" target="_blank">Microsoft PowerPoint</a>, <a href="http://www.openoffice.org/" target="_blank">OpenOffice.org Present</a>, <a href="http://www.apple.com/iwork/keynote/" target="_blank">Keynote for Mac</a>, and other tools. There are also what are called screen casts, where the presenter walks the learner through a task by creating a video of the on-screen actions needed to accomplish a task. The methods for handling these two cases are different, and will be addressed separately.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>Presentations</b></div><div><b><br /></b></div><div>Once you have a presentation, you have a few choices on how to embed it in your EClass. The simplest approach is to simply link to the presentation, and require the learner to have some software to view it. (<a href="http://www.openoffice.org/" target="_blank">OpenOffice.org Present</a> is free and open source software which can view most presentation types.) However, if you do not wish to require the learner to have presentation software installed, or if you would like the presentation to be audio narrated and run automatically, you need to consider exporting the presentation to either Flash or MP4. The latter is recommended for the widest possible distribution - Flash does not work on some mobile devices. The latest versions of Microsoft PowerPoint for Windows and Mac support exporting to either WMV or MOV video files, after which point you can convert them using a video converter. For more information on this, see the "Video Production &amp; Conversion" section.</div><div><br /></div><div>Flash export is also available in most presentation software. However, they do not all work the same - sometimes, the export will not handle audio or other types of content. It is recommended that you try out the Flash export and make sure it works before deciding to take this route when exporting.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>Screen Casts</b></div><div><b><br /></b></div><div><div>Screen Casts can be very useful when covering software skills. They allow you to visually show the learner how to perform the task while explaining it to them. If you wish to create screen casts, that is, videos showing a series of actions taken on the computer, you should consider software such as <a href="http://www.techsmith.com/camtasia/" target="_blank">Camtasia Studio</a>. Camtasia Studio exports to MP4, so you can take the files it creates and embed them into your EClass.</div><div style="font-weight: bold; "><br /></div></div>
</body>
</html>