<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Graphics Production &amp; Editing</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Graphics Production &amp; Editing</h1><div>When creating an eBook, you will often need to incorporate graphics to help visualize concepts or drive home a point. To do this, you would use either a <b>vector-based</b> or a <b>raster-based</b> drawing program.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>Vector-based Drawing Programs</b></div><div><b><br /></b></div><div>Vector-based drawing programs are used when you're working with shapes or sketch art - graphs, pie charts, simple drawings. It is called vector because the drawing, to the computer, is simply a series of lines and shapes with properties such as color, thickness and transparency. Similar to 'vectors' in the math world. Drawing using a vector-based tool is much like drawing with a pencil, you can easily erase or adjust each piece of the picture. </div><div><br /></div><div>Some popular vector-based drawing programs include:</div><div><ul><li><a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/illustrator/" target="_blank">Adobe Illustrator</a>,  the de-facto standard industry tool for professional drawing and illustration. </li><li><a href="http://www.openoffice.org/product/draw.html" target="_blank">OpenOffice.org Draw</a>, a vector-based drawing extension for the OpenOffice.org office suite.</li><li><a href="http://code.google.com/p/svg-edit/" target="_blank">SVG-Edit</a>, a cross-platform, browser-based vector drawing program.</li></ul><div>Although you would save the graphics in a vector-based format while you are working on them, when you export the graphics to include in your EClass, they will need to be in a raster-based format, either GIF, JPEG or PNG. Please see the software's documentation for instructions on how to do this.</div></div><div><br /></div><div><b>Raster-based Drawing Programs</b></div><div><b><br /></b></div><div>In contrast to vector-based drawing programs, raster-based programs are better suited for creating and editing more complex graphics, like photographs. They store their data as pixels, not lines and shapes, with each pixel having color information stored within it. It is like drawing with a pen - any change you make is permanent once you save and close the document. It is much like drawing with a marker or pen. If you open it later, you cannot simply delete the drawing you did, you'd need to draw over it, or erase it entirely.</div><div><br /></div><div>Some popular raster-based drawing programs include:</div><div><ul><li><a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop/family/" target="_blank">Adobe Photoshop</a>, the de-facto standard industry tool for professional raster-based drawing and photo manipulation.</li><li><a href="http://www.gimp.org/" target="_blank">The GIMP</a>, a free and open source graphics manipulation program that has a similar level of functionality to Adobe Photoshop.</li></ul><div>As with the vector-based programs, when exporting the graphics for inclusion in your EClass, you will need to save them in either GIF, JPEG or PNG format. Please see the software's documentation for more instructions on how to do this.</div></div><div><br /></div>
</body>
</html>