<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Importing Content</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
</head>
<body>
    <h1 align="center">Importing Content</h1><div>There are a couple different ways of importing content into EClass.Builder, and which to use depends on what kind of content you are importing. The two approaches are <b>copy and paste</b>, along with <b>exporting your content as HTML and importing it as a new page</b>. </div><div><br /></div><div>Copy and paste is the simplest method - it works just like copy and paste in other tools. However, at this time, text formatting, and things like images are not properly retained when doing copy and paste. So if you are working with a large amount of content or content with images, links, etc., you are better off exporting your content as HTML and importing it to EClass.Builder.</div><div><br /></div><div>On how to convert your content into HTML, please refer to the documentation for the tool you created the content in. Once you have your content in HTML format, go into EClass.Builder, select the page you'd like the imported content to appear under, and select "Import File..." from the Page menu. Then select the file you wish to import, and click "Open". The content should now appear as a new page in your EClass. However, there is one final step - we should make sure the HTML is completely valid, as otherwise it may not appear properly in some browsers or devices.</div><div><br /></div><div>To do this, select the page you just added, and select "Clean up HTML" from the "Format" menu. A new window will appear, showing you the original HTML and the HTML after it has been cleaned up. Make sure there are not any major issues with the content after the clean up, and if so, click "OK" to apply the clean up. Click "Cancel" if there are significant problems or errors in the cleaned up version, though this should be fairly rare. Note that it is normal that there are occasional formatting issues that will need to be fixed after a clean up of a large document. If you do not perform this process on your document, it will not work in various scenarios such as in eBook readers.</div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div>
</body>
</html>